my first question is how did you get
interested in athletics well my brother got me
started in athletics
there was a man who came
to my element brother stayed after school he was to
work out with the team and he picked the people he
got a sister who wants to run we always like we had
elementary
school relays and relay races in school he told him
the coach about me and says so that's really how
you're doing
with the boys against
girls at that at that point i think we're pretty
much
this particular
coach
uh carl
robbins i don't know why i never had a coach that
didn't push you i had a
good experience
yeah
so i think it's
kind of good
did you ever
compete in any other sports
in high school we i'm not really that old but we
really didn't
have any
but the only athletic programs that we had so i
really
just picked track and stuff i may have been
different and
i have played half a quarter
women choose sports which they prefer or should
they choose sports choose those sports which are
more popular such as gymnastics if
they're
gonna want to go as a matter of
fact to get phone calls
but she's also good obviously the girl has a lot to
say always go with the thing you know different
levels of competition if you're trying to go to the
top level you've got to do something that you're
dealing with professional sports for women
tennis and golf concerning the professional
level why do you feel women have made less money in
individual sports and why are women's
professional teams struggling and oftentimes
fail i
don't really
know why we bought in different sports as far
as track full-scale entrainments a lot of times
the men will scale against the men's events it's
getting better but when i was running it wasn't i
don't know why
because the people enjoyed
it maybe it's just the fact that the women
and
they'd probably pay it if they'd be struggling
oftentimes
no a lot
of attention
star female female athlete you've probably
experienced many things which non-athletes
girls did not experience did you ever feel you were
treated differently from your peers in terms of
dating social activities and interactions with
non-athletic
females uh it's real hard for me in high school
probably in high school it wasn't that big deal
because i ran from my father to get to high school
and even girls from other schools if you're good
you're hated you know it's always that way if
you're pretty you're hated if you're popular
you're hated you know and that's the way it was for
me i i was popular within my school because i was
cheerleader varsity cheerleader stuff like that
so i i got some things that lets me know that i was
popular but i was disliked by you think
that was the sole reason you made me of the girls who
disliked me
i mean there were a lot of girls that i didn't like so
i never said very
very
much i think a man will respect another man when you
get to college but women for some reason
value
did athletics
teach you what do you feel people should gain um it
teaches you i think that's
the biggest
considered by their male counterparts as serious
athletes there's some reason i do at a m now it may be
different in other schools
and at a m it seems like
despite all of your accomplishments i found very
little information on you in both the local
newspaper and the battalion do you feel you
receive your just recognition as an athlete and do
you think that you would have received more of your
a
man oh
i probably
got more publicity the big picture in the paper i
was in there quite often and i don't think i was i
felt like at the time i compared me to a male of a
similar quality
every every newspaper whereas i might get an
article in there just right after the track but
jerry
wagner but it wasn't after i made the olympic
team which i was the ultimate goal for me we
went
to
washington
and really
this one guy was a wrestler that
i
was whereas i
didn't really get it probably less publicity
after made
the team we were talking about him as a track ass
leader you got a lot more of the track no well well
once track season started he did it was never
ending thing for him because he
was really putting football on track okay the
title ix section of the equal rights of men or 72
guarantees women equality with men in all areas of
athletics did you at any time feel the women's
athletic program at texas a m was treated equally
with the men's athletic program in terms of
housing, scholarships, equipment, or benefits?
As far as housing, no. I was on full scholarship,
and
boys rowed at King Hall, and my husband played
football for me.
I would say definitely no. I think it's better than
it was at any other marvelous facility. When
I was at A&M, we didn't have pride. I think A&M is
trying to have the best women's program of any of
the schools, and
I think they
probably
do, which I think, I would probably complain that
the big gray on the
bus is on the men's. If we're comparing the women's
track team to the men's track team, I would say we
should compare us to the football team.
A lot of women will compare all the men's teams, but
even the men's team don't get it. I'm pretty
level-headed in that. I've always had proper,
definitely there's a little bit.
As a result of the Title IX, there was a tremendous
increase in the budget of women's athletics at
A&M. During your years here, the budget increased
from $104,000 to $420,000. Was the increase in the
budget evident to you during your years here? The
first year, I was the only one on
scholarship, and of course then it was separate
coaches. So I thought that was really
interesting. And it was real hard for the men to
accept some of the men that were on there were only
getting books and tuition, and they'd compare
their stuff to this other girl over here who was on
there.
So. You could definitely tell, and the coach got a
bigger increase. So you could definitely tell
when they came in.
From its inception, most colleges in the NCAA have
been against Title IX. They argued that an equal
funding of men's and women's athletics would be an
economic disaster for college athletics. Do you
feel this is a viable reason to disallow women an
equal opportunity with men to enjoy athletics?
Well, I know that some of the schools, you know,
they don't want it. I
don't think that's the case. I
know some of the schools. Some of the schools are
that way. I think that they
need to accept it.
I can't believe that they're having that problem
now. When I graduated, it was kind of tough. When I
was like, but it's been long.
University of Houston, for example.
I don't think that he... Women
groups have fought for the separation of women's
athletics from men's. They feel the only way for
women's athletics to prosper is for women to run
their own programs. In 1982, the NCAA ended the
AIWS. The NCAA ended the AIWS as an institution. Do
you believe the best future for women's athletics
lies with the NCAA, or should they run their own
programs? As
long as the people who are in the head office are
going to be fair and equal, I think it's best in the
world. Because it's silly. One rule, for example,
was I trained as a freshman from the University of
Nevada to A&M. And I could compete and not get a
scholarship. Right. If they... They went ahead
and walked away. The wave didn't let me transfer
for various reasons. But
for a woman, you could transfer then under AIW. You
could be... You could run, but you couldn't be on
scholarship. For men, it was the opposite. If you
transferred in, you were an ineligible athlete,
you could be on scholarship, but you couldn't
compete. So, it was... It's real stupid, you know.
I think it needs to be under one. But I think they
need to be fair and equal if they're going to run.
I'm glad it went into the NCAA. They're doing
something right. AIW was... And at that time, all
the teams were members of it. I don't think it can
split. There, for a year, they had AIW and NCAA. And
the schools got their choice. You could go AIW or
NCAA. So, you had a split there, and that was silly.
You need one governing body, and they all need to be
in it. Because
if you don't, you're never going to be in it. That
equal part's not ever going to be there. A lot of
people didn't mind. Kay
Dawn was very against it. But she was... But I think
it was better. Why
do you feel our society has not shown more interest
in the past towards women's sports? And what do you
feel the level of future interest will be? Why do
you feel our society has not shown more interest in
the past towards women's sports? And what do you
feel the level of future interest will be like in
women's basketball? Well, I think the reason why
they haven't in the past is because they haven't
had that... It's just now that... Like, for
example, what I was saying, in 75, I graduated from
high school. Well, until I was a junior, they
didn't have any UIL. This is in Fort Worth. It's in
the Metroplex area. Fort Worth and Dallas
schools, Arlington, Indiana. UIL sports for
girls. And they finally put that in because I know
in Fort Worth my dad complained about it enough.
And I said, we'll try it as a pilot program. Four
schools out of like 10 in Fort Worth, they let them
try it. And if it worked, then they... And so I think
that's one drawback is the fact that they haven't
had all those things. And even it ain't in now, you
know, soccer. I know you can't have everything.
Because that's part of the drawback. Since my
brother went to high school, they had track,
wrestling, football, basketball. They still
don't have softball
anymore. And I think that's a big problem. But I
think it's... I think that we're getting over that
now. They're adding a little bit. It's just like
the Marathon
900-meter hurdles or 300-meter hurdles in high
school. They didn't have that as new. Yet you go to
college to make a choice. So we need to have the same
things. So they're getting over that. Do you feel
athletes
should live apart from the remainder of the
student body? And do you feel the integration of
athletes with the regular students would hurt or
help them in their pursuit of education?
Personally, I think they should live... They're
coming
and going at different times. Closing and kind of
being
yelled at from the resident
advisors
when we got involved. I think it's good if they can
live apart. I think it
hurts if
they
do live
together and fit in better. And that's not to knock
them down. It's not in every athlete. But in some,
it is. You
know,
I think that if they were forced to live with me, but
if I had to make a choice... Looking
from an athlete's perspective, what is the role of
the college athlete? And what is your opinion of
having only volunteer college athletics in place
of scholarship athletics? They're
traveling on weekends. Because of those extra
things, I definitely think that the athletes
that... I think that the walk-on thing should
always be there. What is the role
of the college athlete? I think the role of the
college athlete... Not
necessarily wearing to and from. But
know that when you go into a restaurant,
you've got to show them that you're... That you
represent your school. Both on
and off the field. Do you feel that the 1980 Olympic
boycott was the correct action to take by our
government? That this action was fully
understood by both yourself and other teammates?
And will the Olympic Games ever be the same? It
wasn't understood, but I don't agree with it. You
know, what's happened now... We got a little
miffed because I didn't come down early. I don't
think the Olympics will ever, ever be the same.
Because every year there's going to be one. And
years ago, that didn't happen. I guess
really since 1968, things have closed. Because of
terrorism, also. You're always in fear. Even if
you're going as an athlete. If I had gone to Moscow,
I think I'd have... One reason why
I completely... I had originally planned to get
back into it the next year. Because
I really got involved. I
really... Take and reach that level.
I think it's... I think it was terrible. At the time
I made the team, I was real excited about making the
team. And, you know, we got our watches and our
rings. And everybody from your hometown. It sunk
in probably a little bit later in the year. When I
saw
the Olympics. And then, also, they backtracked.
And the grading bar goes with it. But
you can't even remember all the athletes. I met an
athlete on the whole Olympic team. Not just the
track, but on the rowing team, the wrestling team.
That agreed with me. I
cannot
remember that I do agree with them. And for some of
those... The ones that were really
bitter at that time were... Because, you know,
being... For me, it was all new. And I was all
excited. They knew what they were missing. It hit
me a little bit.